Suppose you and I are coaching track teams. Our athletes come from the same school, are similar ages, and the same gender (i.e., they're drawn from the same population), but I claim to have discovered a Revolutionary New Training System that will make my team members run much faster than yours. Afterward, I sit down and compute the average time for the members of my team and the average time for the members of yours. Our teams are pretty similar, but you-due to pure chance-ended up with the fastest runner in the district. He's not in the same league as everyone else; he's practically a freak of Nature. He finished 3 minutes before the next-fastest finisher, which reduces your average time a lot, but the rest of the competitors are pretty evenly mixed. Let's look at the finish order instead. If your method really works, the earlier finishers should mostly be from your team, but if it doesn't the finish order should be pretty random. Note that unlike the MATH -test, we're not assuming that the data comes from specific distributions, nor are we computing any parameters for them. Instead, we're comparing the relative ranks of the data points directly. That's the major distinction-parametric tests model things with distributions and compare the parameters of these distributions; non-parametric tests.don't and operate more directly on the data. You would report and interpret them just like the results of a parametric test. I'm not sure about the relative popularity of parametric and non-parametric methods. I suspect that the Mann-Whitney U Test ought to be used more, rather than less frequently. It's about as efficient as a MATH -test. Practical concerns like memory and processor time aside , I can't imagine any situation where having more representative training data leads to a worse outcome. Overfitting is essentially learning spurious correlations that occur in your training data, but not the real world. Increasing the size of your data set (e.g., to the entire building or city) should reduce these spurious correlations and improve the performance of your learner. That said, one situation where more data does not help-and may even hurt-is if your additional training data is noisy or doesn't match whatever you are trying to predict. I once did an experiment where I plugged different language models I varied the amount of training data as well as its relevance: at one extreme, I had a small, carefully curated collection of people booking tables, a perfect match for my application. At the other, I had a model estimated from huge collection of classic literature, a more accurate language model, but a much worse match to the application. To my surprise, the small-but-relevant model vastly outperformed the big-but-less-relevant model. Unfortunately, I don't think there are any hard and fast rules for this sort of trade-off. You'll have to try it and see how it works. URL has far more than your probably wanted to know about Quetelet and his invention of the body mass index. There are some first-principles arguments too, based on how people grow, and some more recent work has attempted to relate that scaling back to some biomechanics. It's worth noting that the value of the BMI is fairly hotly debated. I'm going to run through the whole Naive Bayes process from scratch, since it's not totally clear to me where you're getting hung up. We want to find the probability that a new example belongs to each class: MATH). We then compute that probability for each class, and pick the most likely class. The problem is that we usually don't have those probabilities. However, Bayes' Theorem lets us rewrite that equation in a more tractable form. Bayes' Thereom is simplyMATH or in terms of our problem: We can simplify this by removing MATH. We can do this because we're going to rank MATH for each value of MATH; MATH will be the same every time-it doesn't depend on MATH. The prior probabilities, MATH, can be calculated as you described in your question. That leaves MATH. We want to eliminate the massive, and probably very sparse, joint probability MATH. If each feature is independent, then MATH I personally think it's easier to think this through for discrete (i.e., categorical) variables, so let's use a slightly different version of your example. Here, I've divided each feature dimension into two categorical variables. To train the classifer, we count up various subsets of points and use them to compute the prior and conditional probabilities. The priors are trivial: There are sixty total points, forty are green while twenty are red. Next, we have to compute the conditional probabilities of each feature-value given a class. Here, there are two features: MATH and MATH, each of which takes one of two values (A or B for one, X or Y for the other). We therefore need to know the following: These are easy to compute by counting and dividing too. For example, for MATH, we look only at the red points and count how many of them are in the 'A' region for MATH. There are twenty red points, all of which are in the 'A' region, so MATH. None of the red points are in the B region, so MATH. Next, we do the same, but consider only the green points. This gives us MATH and MATH. We repeat that process for MATH, to round out the probability table. Let's classify the white point from your example. We want to find the probability that it's in each class. Let's start with red. Using the formula above, we know that: MATH We then do the same for green: Subbing in those values gets us 0 . Finally, we look to see which class gave us the highest probability. In this case, it's clearly the red class, so that's where we assign the point. In your original example, the features are continuous. You might consider fitting then to a known probability distribution (e.g., a Gaussian). During training, you would find the mean and variance for each class along each feature dimension. To classify a point, you'd find MATH by plugging in the appropriate mean and variance for each class. Other distributions might be more appropriate, depending on the particulars of your data, but a Gaussian would be a decent starting point. I'm not too familiar with the DARPA data set, but you'd do essentially the same thing. and then combine them in the same way as the example. As a side note, part of the trick here is to come up with good features. Source IP, for example, is probably going to be hopelessly sparse-you'll probably only have one or two examples for a given IP. I hope that helps more. Outside of a few contexts, like converting a value to decibels, base VALUE logarithms are pretty rare in equations. However, log-scale plots are often in VALUE, though this should be pretty easy to verify from the labels on the axes. In a mathematical context, an unadorned MATH), and they're not always clearly marked as such. As HANDLE points out below, this makes no practical difference. If I were forced to guess, here are some heuristics: If powers of 2, MATH, or VALUE are also present, the logs are likely to have the corresponding base. If it arises from integrating MATH (or, more generally, involves calculus), it's likely to be a natural log. If it arises from repeatedly dividing something in half (as in binary search), it's likely to be MATH times. This would obviously be an absolute nightmare to do in practice, but suppose it could be done: we appoint a Statistical Sultan and everyone running a hypothesis test reports their raw MATH -values to this despot. He performs some kind of global  multiple comparisons correction and replies with the corrected versions. No, probably not. This applies to a single test. With enough tests, you therefore almost certainly going to start making errors, and lots of them. The various multiple corrections approaches are intended to help you get back to a nominal error rate that you have already chosen to tolerate for individual tests. They do so in slightly different ways. With False Discovery Rate corrections, the numerical issue isn't quite so severe, but it is still a mess philosophically. Tailoring your family to a specific question lets you actually interpret your Type I error bound in a direct way. This is a lot better than a nebulous guarantee that covers inferences done by people you don't care about on topics you don't care about. I don't believe anyone has seriously advocated defining families nearly so extensively. We start with some non-committal prior over.well.everything. Every time we learn something, that information is combined with the prior to generate a posterior distribution, which in turn becomes the prior for the next time we learn something. This gives you a coherent update rule and you could compare different hypotheses about specific things by calculating the Bayes factor between two hypotheses. You could presumably factor out large chunks of the model, which wouldn't even make this particularly onerous. There is a persistent.meme that Bayesian methods don't require multiple comparisons corrections. Thus, you're back in intractable territory, but perhaps on slightly more principled ground. The Bayesian counter-argument is that we should focus on what we can know now and thus these error rates aren't as important. My sense is that other factors are more likely to be an issue. An obvious one is that pressure to publish leads people to avoid experiments that really stress their hypothesis (i.e., bad experimental design). Andrew Gelman also likes to talk about the URL, wherein researchers choose a  analysis plan based on the data, but might have done other analyses if the data looked different. This inflates MATH -values in a similar way to multiple comparisons, but is much harder to correct for afterward. Blatantly incorrect analysis may also play a role, but my feeling (and hope) is that that is gradually improving. In other words, we want units to independently extract features from their inputs instead of relying on other neurons to do so. Suppose we have a multilayered feedforward network like this one (the topology doesn't really matter). We're worried about the yellow hidden units in the middle layer co-adapting. To apply DropOut, we randomly select a subset of the units and clamp their output to zero, regardless of the input; this effectively removes those units from the model. A different subset of units is randomly selected every time we present a training example. Below are two possible network configurations. On the first presentation , the 1st and 3rd units are disabled, but the 2nd and 3rd units have been randomly selected on a subsequent presentation. At test time, we use the complete network but rescale the weights to compensate for the fact that all of them can now become active (e.g., if you drop half of the nodes, the weights should also be halved). DropConnect works similarly, except that we disable individual weights (i.e., set them to zero), instead of nodes, so a node can remain partially active. Schematically, it looks like this: These methods both work because they effectively let you train several models at the same time, then average across them for testing. For example, the yellow layer has four nodes, and thus VALUE possible DropConnect is a generalization of DropOut because it produces even more possible models, since there are almost always more connections than units. However, you can get similar outcomes on an individual trial. The original papers are pretty accessible and contain more details and empirical results. Here is one theoretical and two practical reasons why someone might rationally prefer a non-DNN approach. The No Free Lunch Theorem from URL says In other words, no single algorithm rules them all; you've got to benchmark. Many of these very deep networks require tons of data, as well as tons of computation, to fit. If you have  VALUE examples, a twenty layer network is never going to learn well, while it might be possible to fit a much simpler model. There are a surprising number of problems where it's not feasible to collect a ton of data. On the other hand, one might try learning to solve a related problem (where more data is available), use something like transfer learning to adapt it to the specific low-data-availability-task. Deep neural networks can also have unusual failure modes. There are some papers showing that barely-human-perceptible changes can cause a network to flip from correctly classifying an image to confidently misclassifying it. (See here and the accompanying paper by Szegedy et al.) Other approaches may be more robust against this: there are poisoning attacks against SVMs (e.g., this by Biggio, Nelson, and Laskov), but those happen at train, rather than test time. At the opposite extreme, there are known (but not great) performance bounds for the nearest-neighbor algorithm. In some situations, you might happier with lower overall performance with less chance of catastrophe. Lets imagine that the first scenario involves rolling one red die and one blue die, while the second involves you rolling a pair of white dice. Next, suppose you roll two identical dice instead. You've correctly listed all the possible outcomes, but you incorrectly assumed all of these outcomes are equally likely. In particular, the MATH outcomes are half as likely as the other outcomes. Instead, you need to weight each outcome by the probability of it occurring. If you run through the math, you'll find that it comes out the same-one doubly-likely event in the numerator out of VALUE double-likely events and 6 singleton events. One way to think about this is to imagine what would happen if you could distinguish the two dice. Perhaps you put a tiny mark on each die. This can't change the outcome, but it reduces the problem the previous one. A 'weak' learner (classifer, predictor, etc) is just one which performs relatively poorly-its accuracy is above chance, but just barely. There is often, but not always, the added implication that it is computationally simple. s. The classic example of a Weak Learner is a Decision Stump, a one-level decision tree (1R or OneR is another commonly-used weak learner; it's fairly similar). It would be somewhat strange to call a SVM a 'weak learner', even in situations where it performs poorly, but it would be perfectly reasonable to call a single decision stump a weak learner even when it performs surprisingly well by itself. I'm not sure there's anything magical about VALUE MATH is given as a free parameter (i.e., you set it yourself). The aim of MATH -fold cross validation is not to produce a model; it is to compare models. The results of a cross validation experiment could tell you that Support Vector Machines out-perform Naive Bayes on your data, or that the classifier's hyper parameters should be set to c for this particular data set. In many cases, it's not even clear how you would go about averaging several models. It's important to keep in mind that the cross validation results are estimates, not guarantees, and these estimates are more valid if the production classifier is trained with a similar quality (and quantity) of data. There has been a fair amount of work on developing ways to use these estimates to perform inference; that is, to say, in a statistically sound way, that method A is generally superior to method B on these data. Suppose I had a set of models that all attempt to explain some phenomena. The models' predictions, while not totally identical, are fairly well correlated. Furthermore, the metric used to evaluate the models does not penalize model complexity ( My gut feeling is essentially Occam's Razor: the best way to demonstrate our understanding of a phenomenon is to build a simple but effective model from explicit input features. This is especially true when the NN does not perform much better than the simple model. Both speakers' counter-argument was that, no, the most complicated model is the most interesting: it had the capacity to overfit the data, but judging by their equivalent cross-validated performance, it apparently did not. Thus, we should be investigating the structure of the complex model instead, since the true phenomena is probably complex and not captured by the simpler models. Ties.method specifies the method rank uses to break ties. Suppose you have a vector VALUE). It's obvious that 1 is first, and 2 is second. However, it's not clear what ranks should be assigned to the first and second 3s. Ties.method determines how this is done. There are a few options: Anna Choromanska and her colleagues in Yan LeCunn's group at NYU, address this in their DATE AISTATS paper Using random matrix theory, along with some experiments, they argue that: In this view, there's not a great reason to deploy heavy-weight approaches for finding the global minimum. That time would be better spent trying out new network topologies, features, data sets, etc. That said, lots of people have thought about augmenting or replacing SGD. For fairly small networks (by contemporary standards), these improved metahuristics do seem to do something URL use simulated annealing to train a CNN and find it initially performs better on the validation set. After VALUE epochs, however, only a a very small (and not-tested-for-significance) difference in performance remains. The faster convergence-per-epoch advantage is also offset by a dramatically larger amount of computation time per epoch, so this is not a obvious win for simulated annealing. It is possible that these heuristics do a better job of initializing the network and once it has been pointed down the right path, any optimizer will do. Sutskever et al.  from Geoff Hinton's group argue something like this in their DATE ICML paper. To find the centroid, one computes the  mean of the points' positions separately for each dimension. For example, if you had points at: The centroid is also sometimes called the center of mass or barycenter, based on its physical interpretation (it's the center of mass of an object defined by the points). Like the mean, the centroid's location minimizes the sum-squared distance from the other points. Unlike the centroid, the medoid has to be one of the original points. You may also be interested in the geometric median which is analgous to the median, but for multivariate data. These are both different from the centroid. The centroid distance between cluster MATH and average them all together. I think Sutton and Barto is still the standard. There are a lot of slide decks and notes from AI classes online, but they typically don't go into too much detail. Sutton and Barto is a little old, but they are preparing a 2nd edition of their textbook. A draft, dated January DATE, is available here; it's linked from Sutton's webpage, which also has the full text of the first edition. I would look at this before tackling Kochenderfer et al.'s URL. That book has some interesting applications (mostly in aviation) but it moves quickly and bounces around a lot. Other than that, you might try diving into some papers-the reinforcement learning stuff tends to be pretty accessible. A colleague and I have been clustering some data in SPSS VALUE) and R VALUE), respectively. On this particular data set, the R dendrogram is about VALUE units tall, but the SPSS dendrogram is only VALUE units tall. This is somewhat MATH unsettling, obviously. While thumbing through some manuscripts and webpages, I noticed that all but one of the SPSS-derived dendrograms were also exactly VALUE units tall (example 1, 2, 3; we also have a pretty hefty pile of papers that are unfortunately all pay-walled, including the single counter-example). The caption on the SPSS output says something about rescaling, but the documentation is oddly silent about if, how, and why SPSS might be rescaling the dendrograms. It seems to cause SPSS to cut our dendrogram a few levels above the leaves. The choice of MATH value according to the number of parameters in the model. They therefore have slightly different purposes. Unlike some classifiers, multi-class labeling is trivial with Naive Bayes. For each test example MATH, and each class MATH you want to find: In other words, you compute the probability of each class label in the usual way, then pick the class with the largest probability.