The predictive distribution can be expressed as follows: Equation  applies to both parametric and nonparametric models. The form of MATH determines the type of model. I'll begin with a nonparametric model and then show how it specializes to a parametric model. The nonparametric approach presented here involves an infinite mixture. As a preliminary, let MATH is a corresponding infinite collection of component parameters. In order to implement the model, one must specify the kernel and the base distribution. It is convenient - but not necessary - to make MATH. A parametric can be seen as a special limiting case. As it stands, the nonparametric model is a Dirichlet Process Mixture  model. It will prove useful to generalize it slightly by putting a prior on the concentration parameter We can use the marginal posterior for the concentration parameter MATH It is the ratio of the posterior density for MATH at zero, we can see whether and how much the data favor the restriction. You should be aware that many Bayesian practitioners frown on model comparison of this sort, which amounts to a sharpe hypothesis test (because MATH. The median of this distribution is one and the mean is infinite. As a final comment, let me note that I have not touched on how to estimate the DPM. There are a number of ways to do this. My preferred approach is to convert the infinite sum into a finite sum where MATH. In this form the model is quite standard. See for example Bayesian Data Analysis  by Gelman et al. Combining a number of pieces of evidence produces another Beta distribution, MATH. The stick-breaking weights are generated according to MATH MATH The base distribution determines the locations of the support points while the stick-breaking weights determine the amount of clustering. It is possible to introduce classifications that indicate cluster assignments and integrate out the weights, leaving one with the Chinese Restaurant Process to make the  assignments. The base distribution then is used to determine the entrees for the tables. I agree a Bayesian approach makes sense. Let me provide some detail. Let MATH denote the current set of observations. We will distinguish between two sets of assumptions, MATH is not completely known. According to MATH denote the known value. By contrast, according to MATH before any such observations were available (the prior distribution). (We address how to formulate the prior distribution below.) Having characterized the information regarding MATH given the current set of observations, we can address the question of the prediction for the next observation. We can use Bayesian Model Averaging  to combine the predictive distributions from both sets of assumptions. The assumption behind BMA is that all of the observations come form one of the two models, but we do not know which. Therefore, we weight the forecasts by the probabilities we assign to each of the models. We will have a closed-form expression for the combined predictive distribution if we have closed-form expressions for the posterior and the posterior predictive under MATH. We now address the question as to how to formulate the prior for MATH under the second set of assumptions. In the absence of information to the contrary, we adopt the conjugate prior. The values of these parameters can affect the posterior model probabilities, and thus one should give some thought to the values chosen for them. (The Cauchy distribution does not have a mean or a variance.) You now have closed-form expressions for all the parts of the combined predictive distribution. Z involves two independent distributions, while W involves two distributions that are perfectly correlated. You can see this yourself by simulation. There is a different approach that often works quite well. It involves introducing latent classification variables: Each observation is classified with a mixture component, but these classifications are not observed. By way of introduction, consider generating random variates from a mixture distribution. One way is to first use the mixture weights (they characterize a categorical distribution) to choose the mixture component (i.e., choose the classification) and then draw the variate from that component. Drawing from the posterior distribution is fairly straightforward. The combination of the mixture weights and the classifications forms the basis of a Gibbs sampler. Let MATH). Perhaps someone will find the following simple example useful. Consider flipping a coin once. In neither case is there a maximum for MATH. Maybe that's what you need a dose of. The peak can be eliminated by using a different prior for MATH. The simplest way to implement the new prior is to change the parameterization. Trying to use this prior directly with the original parameterization may cause problems due to numerical instability. That's why it's a good idea to switch parameterizations. This general approach can be specialized to the current case as follows. where MATH. Here is the basic structure of a hierarchical model. In order to simplify the exposition, I'm going to modify the notation a bit. Let there be MATH. In the example, MATH is a Bernoulli distribution. The right-hand sides display important simplifications. To begin with, each of  and  omits unnecessary factors: MATH) are independent of each other. MATH The Metropolis-Hastings algorithm can be applied to the likelihood in this case to produce draws from the posterior. As I understand it, there is a business decision that depends on the total number of file openings which in turn depends on the unknown fraction of Word users who open the downloaded file. The optimal decision should take this uncertainty into account. As others have noted, sampling theory does not apply here and a confidence interval cannot be computed. Nevertheless a decision must be made - which may be simply to acquire more information for the time being. Let me state the problem a bit more formally. You are uncertain about the fraction MATH of Word users who open the file. Since this is a real business situation, you must bring whatever additional information you can to the problem. MATH You can use this distribution in your decision problem: It characterizes your uncertainty about MATH is likely to be. The question remains as to how to come up with MATH. This is true, but that's the situation you face and you must use whatever information you have (or decide to acquire). If you are the decision maker, then you are the only one to whom the assumptions must be justified. Notice that increasing the sample size above VALUE adds no information about MATH. Consider the following way to begin assessing the distribution for MATH. Since VALUE percent of OpenOffice users open the file, it may be reasonable to assume that Word users are similar in their behavior. For example, a beta distribution might provide a useful characterization of your knowledge. MATH You could solve MATH to control the uncertainty around the mean of VALUE. I leave off here. My answer is merely intended to suggest a way of thinking about the problem that may not have occurred to you. If you wanted to get a closed-form solution for the posterior distribution then you would use a conjugate prior, in which case MATH. But suppose you wanted to use an MCMC algorithm to simulate draws from the posterior using the conjugate prior just for the heck of it. Then you would write the code for the joint distribution for MATH. I can provide an analytical framework for the problem, but I'm not familiar enough with PyMC3 or Stan to translate that framework into either of those languages. Whether this predictive distribution is approximately normal or not depends strongly on the prior for MATH. By contrast, if one adopts a nonparametric prior for MATH, which could be highly non-normal. The OP asked for more detail on the DP-related prior. As a preliminary, it is convenient to re-express the prior for MATH as follows: In this prior, the prior for MATH. The mean of MATH (the concentration parameter). There is an explicit representation for the DP prior that involves an infinite-order mixture. In preparation, let MATH. In addition, let MATH. In this representation, the randomness of MATH. The form of the prior that will prove most useful is obtained by integrating out MATH: All that remains is to describe MATH as well. The concentration parameter MATH controls the rate at which the weights decline on average. In particular, the weights decline geometrically in expectation: You have two models, MATH and MATH. Each model is characterized by a distribution for an observation MATH. Let MATH. Consistent with an earlier answer, let MATH Given the data MATH, this expression provides the likelihood for the model. For Bayesian inference you will also need the prior probabilities for the models, MATH, where MATH. The  bootstrap takes the data as a reasonable approximation to the unknown population distribution. Therefore, the sampling distribution of a statistic (a function of the data) can be approximated by repeatedly resampling the observations with replacement and computing the statistic for each each sample. Let MATH over a number of bootstrap replications that is used to approximate the sampling distribution from the unknown population. In order to understand the connection between the frequentist bootstrap and the Bayesian bootstrap, it is instructive to see how to compute MATH from a different perspective. In each bootstrap sample MATH. The way in which the observations are chosen for a bootstrap sample determines the joint distribution for MATH. From this new perspective, it appears that the observations are fixed while the weights are varying. In Bayesian inference, the observations are indeed taken as fixed, so this new perspective seems congenial to the Bayesian approach. Indeed, the calculation of the mean according to the Bayesian bootstrap differs only in the distribution of the weights. (Nevertheless, from a conceptual standpoint the Bayesian bootstrap is quite different from the frequentist version.) The data MATH are the unknown parameters. We may be interested in some functional of the data that depends on the unknown parameters: Here is a thumbnail sketch of the model behind the Bayesian bootstrap: The sampling distribution for the observations is multinomial and the prior for the weights is a limiting Dirichlet distribution that puts all its weight on the vertices of the simplex. (Some authors refer to this model as the multinomial likelihood model. MATH (This distribution is flat over the simplex.) The two distributions for the weights (frequentist and Bayesian) are quite similar: They have the same means and similar covariances. The Dirichlet distribution is 'smoother' than the multinomial distribution, so the Bayesian bootstrap may be call the smoothed bootstrap. We may interpret the frequentist bootstrap as an approximation to the Bayesian bootstrap. Given the posterior distribution for the weights, we can approximate the posterior distribution of the functional MATH. (The framework of estimating equations is used with empirical likelihood and with generalized method of moments . MATH The setup is a bit more involved than that for the frequentist bootstrap, which is why a Bayesian might adopt the frequentist bootstrap as a quick approximation. Before I describe how I approach the problem, I would make a small change in your setup. I would replace MATH is the wear rate. (If you don't like that, I think it's easy to follow my approach with your setup. The data are of the form MATH denotes the log-normal distribution. However, as you point out, we only observe data for which MATH. (I have included a truncation from above at 1 as well; it probably doesn't matter. Given the likelihood, my approach is Bayesian, in part because the distribution for MATH. MATH Any information you have about the unknown parameters MATH to experiment with. This prior is improper, but doesn't seem to produce any problems here. (One has to be careful. At this point there are a number of ways to proceed. I chose to adopt a simple random-walk Metropolis sampler to make MCMC draws from the posterior distribution. I use my own code written in Mathematica, so I'm not sure how helpful it would be. You may be able to code this up in JAGS or Stan and run it from within R. I don't know off hand. This a a bivariate Student-t distribution with 2 degrees of freedom, location vector VALUE)MATH. Let MATH denote a state variable that follows a Markov process, where MATH. The transition distribution is denoted by MATH The joint distribution for MATH is given by MATH where MATH is the marginal distribution for MATH. This latter distribution may be expressed in terms of the marginal distribution for MATH: Let MATH denote a collection of observations that depend on the state variable. Let the observations depend on the states as follows: MATH where MATH is sometimes known as the measurement distribution. Note MATH does not have an observation associated with it. Use the forward-backward algorithm to make a random draw of the unobserved Markov process MATH from the posterior distribution MATH As part of the answer, illustrate the details of the algorithm in the context of the following two specific cases. For the first example, suppose MATH In this example the state space is the real line: MATH. Finally, explain how to proceed if the transition and observation distributions depend on unknown parameters. Perhaps you are confusing the prior distribution with the proposal distribution. The prior distribution is part of the posterior distribution. The proposal distribution plays a role in the Metropolis-Hastings MCMC sampler that is used to make draws from the posterior distribution. Let MATH denote the current state of the Markov chain. It appears the software allows you to choose different proposal distributions depending on the prior bounds of the parameters. Since MATH you would choose the uniform proposal for it. Your other two parameters are constrained to be positive, so you would choose the log-uniform proposal for them. (I am not endorsing these proposal distributions; I am only trying to help you understand what I think the user guide is trying to tell you. I would say the model you present has one prior for multiple parameters (in this case two: MATH. In order to plot the joint posterior distribution  you would need a different command. As I understand it, you have a joint distribution that you can factor as follows: MATH I presume you are interested in the distribution of MATH given that MATH and MATH are observed: MATH At the purely formal level, there is no problem with this. Moreover, it seems natural to have a prior distribution for the disease, MATH, and a distribution for symptoms MATH that depends on the disease, MATH. However, the idea that one has a distribution for age MATH that depends on disease, MATH, seems a bit unusual, but not impossible: If I tell you that the patient has a disease then you can tell me the probability that the patient is over any particular age. But the inference could just as well have been conducted sequentially, for example via MATH where MATH One of the strengths of the Bayesian approach is that all relevant information can be brought to bear on a problem. It turns out this is an example of and order-statistic-based copula. You can read about them here: Here is the abstract, which provides a good summary: By replacing MATH with MATH one obtains the a copula with negative correlation. With MATH, the copula in the question is the FGM copula with maximal correlation. For what it's worth, here is the approach I would take. Here is a simple framework that can be used to illustrate the ideas involved. Consider two units, labeled 1 and 2. Let the data applicable to unit MATH may be composed of a number of observations.) We now have a prior for MATH). The hyperparameter is unknown and its prior is MATH. In this formulation the hyperparameter can be interpreted as the carrier of the information. This is just a very brief sketch. More can be said at every stage. My answer follows the suggestion to express the noisy outcome as a likelihood. I have changed the notation a bit (from the question) to handle some additional complications. We now have a complete model, which is to say we have the following joint distribution: MATH where MATH are known. Given this model, we have MATH where MATH There are a number of ways one can proceed at this point to estimate the model (i.e., the compute the posterior distribution). In addition there are a number of distributions we can address. Suppose we observe MATH. In addition to MATH, we have MATH where MATH. The first of these two distributions is specific to MATH since it is based on its own signal, while the second is generic since is applies to any MATH for which we as yet have no signal. The right-hand side embodies the assumption MATH. Perhaps I have misunderstood the problem, because I don't see any role for MATH.