many, many thanks for all of your help and support on this matter! kim hey gang, i just wanted you to know that i sent a fax early this week to cancel our hotel in positano hotel marincanto. i did not receive a confirmation back from them, so i called them this morning. julio is the gentleman i talked to and he did inform me that the four rooms we had booked are cancelled. please watch your credit card charges to ensure that you do not get billed for the hotel. i have received written confirmation from the hotel in rome front end of trip and the hotel in florence of our cancellation. let's start looking at dates in 2002 to rebook this trip. if one of you has some time, would you check to see if the weather would be better in may or june? maybe we stay home this weekend to be with herschel, and if he is better, then we can take him to my mom's on mon or tue and go on to the hyatt hill country next week. jerry, steve harris asked me to get with you and coordinate any outage planning input that you need from our group. please let me know how i can be of assistance. audrey, i have a draft of the bullets ready. she will also coordinate the bullets for next friday. mark, thanks for the notice of this meeting. since you are the new kid, perhaps you can inquire as to the differences in these shops so that you can effectively deal with both organizations. i'm not sure we've ever been clear on this. please continue to talk about red rock with these folks. what are their thoughts about the west markets? i need to meet with martha and pack up this office. vince, i would like to visit with you about this training. also, i noticed that you had some of the folks in our shop on the invite list, but not all of them? are you available on monday by phone to visit with me about this training? dear gaylen and jodi, attached, please find the questar southern trails interconnect agreement and drawing of its location in the san juan area. the estimated cost of the interconnect is 702,000. please review and let me know if you have any questions or comments. i'm having trouble attaching the drawing. let me know if you need help in doing so. has everyone in our group committed to a time to test with you yet? i must not have your current office telephone number. i would like to connect up with you this weekend if you are available. i am still sad and overwhelmed from the sept. i cannot believe we watched that event unfold like that! these are certainly interesting times call me or email me, i'd like to visist! kirk, as per our phone conversation, here is the revised delivery point construction and operating agreement. please let me know if you will have some time on monday or tuesday when you are in houston and ron and i can review this with you. if we don't connect up in person, then let me know if you would like to book a telephone conference call wednesday, thursday or friday. have a nice weekend and safe travel to houston! thanks, kim katie, when i talked to kyle last week i didn't realize that you are still driving into downtown everyday. i could meet you during lunch or at the end of your day any day this week, whatever you prefer. how was mickey's birthday parties this weekend? it was so kind of you to open your incredibly spectacular home to us. i just love everything that you have done it is truly lovely. i can imagine that your family reunions are just a hoot! kim and john i wanted to send a note to let everyone know that the rate for the firm transportation agreement increases by 0.07 if you have any questions, please don't hesitate to call me.